E-Business Solutions Enabling Group 2011 - 2012 Journey
--------------------------------------------------------

Right after graduating from University with a bachelor of Computer Science, I was recommended by one of my professors to his friend the CEO of eBSEG.

As a fresh grad, I was only exposed to C++ as a programming language at the university and little PHP that I've learnt through a training course back in 2009.

They inteviewed me, started asking me about VB, which I had no clue about. After asking a few questions, the last question I got wrong, which I remember it was "In VB do we compare using = or == like c language?"
My answer was "==", and based on the reaction of the interviewer, I followed with "But programming is a concept, not a language!"
He looked up to me showing admiration, and I got accepted in July 2011 as an intern until my Military Enlisting status becomes clear, which was due in December 2011.

I started by watching a lot of introductory videos to their Omni-Channel, it was such a boring stage of my life. After a whole week of watching long videos of things I know very few about, they assigned me to an asp classic (VB) task.
As an intern, I was not assigned a mentor or senior to teach me, they were busy and threw me to deep waters kinda waiting to see what I'll do, or not caring enough about me altogether.
It took me around 4 days to do it, and they objected on how long it took me to do it. My response was, I'll do better, but I would need some support to achieve that.

Then the next task was another asp.classic feature implementation, that one was completed in a much faster fashion.
Then they decided to include me in a native iOS application for tablets using C#.
It took me a month or so to be considered a productive member of the team.

One major task I made was inverting a native slider control to display and slide in RTL by using dual axis-rotation which put me on the map in the company.
I had heard of this problem while it was considered above my pay grade, and it was not assigned to me, but I just had the inspiration and decided to do it on my own, and It paid off! 

After that they started giving me harder tasks in that project and I started rising up to the tasks and getting more dependable.
Sadly, it was cut short as I was enlisted in the Army...